# Cache AWS EKS Token

This is a script that is used to get a cached AWS EKS token. This speeds up all `kubectl` commands.
The speed increase for `kubectl get pods` is ~73%. It's really noticeable.

The default way is to use `aws eks get-token` command, but it is not cached and it is not very fast.
It's slow because:
1. Every kubectl command will do a `aws eks get-token` which makes an api call to AWS
2. `aws` is python. When running kubectl in a script, you can very clearly see how much performance is lost generating tokens for each kubectl invocation in Activity Monitor.


# How to use
Simply replace the `command: aws` with `command: ../cache-eks-token/cached-aws-eks-token.sh`, or whatever is the location of the script in your `~/.kube/config` files.

## How it works
This script will caches the token in a file based on cluster name in the `$HOME/.kube/cache` directory.
AWS issues token for at-most 15 mins. This script will check the expiry and return exisiting token.
The token will be refreshed if it's expiring within 30 seconds

## Errors

1. `Unable to connect to the server: getting credentials: exec: ... permission denied`
   1. simply run `chmod +x cached-aws-eks-token.sh`
2. If error like `Unable to connect to the server: getting credentials: ... no such file or directory`
   1. Make sure to make the command path be relative to where ever the script exists. You can use `../` in the `command` to move up directories.
3. `Failed conversion of ``'' using format ``%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ''`
   1. Happens when unable to get the date from the cache file. Try deleing the token cache files from `$HOME/.kube/cache`
   2. The cache file generated by the script should looks like this
      ```json
      {
        "kind": "ExecCredential",
        "apiVersion": "client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1",
        "spec": {},
        "status": {
          "expirationTimestamp": "2025-07-20T17:38:15Z",
          "token": "k8s-aws-v1.<token>"
        }
      }
      ```

## Dependencies
1. jq `brew install jq`

## Limitations
Currently the script works only for MacOS aka Darwin due to the flags used for `date`. If linux support is needed, feel free to open a issue or PR.
